{"title": "Low-Complexity Statistically Robust Precoder/Detector Computation for  Massive MIMO Systems", "tag": "eess", "abstract": " Massive MIMO is a variant of multiuser MIMO in which the number of antennas at the base station (BS) $M$ is very large and typically much larger than the number of served users (data streams) $K$. Recent research has illustrated the system-level advantages of such a system and in particular the beneficial effect of increasing the number of antennas $M$. These benefits, however, come at the cost of dramatic increase in hardware and computational complexity. This is partly due to the fact that the BS needs to compute suitable beamforming vectors in order to coherently transmit/receive data to/from each user, where the resulting complexity grows proportionally to the number of antennas $M$ and the number of served users $K$. Recently, different algorithms based on tools from random matrix theory in the asymptotic regime of $M,K \\to \\infty$ with $\\frac{K}{M} \\to \\rho \\in (0,1)$ have been proposed to reduce such complexity. The underlying assumption in all these techniques, however, is that the exact statistics (covariance matrix) of the channel vectors of the users is a priori known. This is far from being realistic, especially that in the high-dim regime of $M\\to \\infty$, estimation of the underlying covariance matrices is well known to be a very challenging problem.  In this paper, we propose a novel technique for designing beamforming vectors in a massive MIMO system. Our method is based on the randomized Kaczmarz algorithm and does not require knowledge of the statistics of the users channel vectors. We analyze the performance of our proposed algorithm theoretically and compare its performance with that of other competitive techniques via numerical simulations. Our results indicate that our proposed technique has a comparable performance while it does not require the knowledge of the statistics of the users channel vectors. ", "text": "column-vector respectively. represent components vector denote sequence vectors upper/lower indices e.g. indicate hermitian conjugate transpose matrix consider multiuser massive mimo system antennas serving single-antenna users. denote true channel vector user antennas also denote possibly quantized noisy estimate note depends matrix probability distribution moreover subspace dimension min{m acts subspace given matrix λmin given minimum eigen-value subspace linear function λmin concave function concave function sdp) suboptimal matrix i.i.d. components rows columns plots illustrate eigen-value distribution average operator optimal distribution minimum eigen value corresponds plots changes coherence time another. instead suboptimal probability distribution proposed kaik scales proportionally squared l-norm kaik. note computing probability faster converges across iterations. fig. compares sub-optimal gain best average gain obtained optimal probability distribution consider massive mimo scenario matrix i.i.d. components rows corresponding antennas different number columns corresponding denotes index random selected iteration component position used fact solution thus onto subspace spanned deﬁned before. difﬁcult check also projection operator thus yields proposition then signal estimate optimal equal zero yields optimal solution −qhy coincides withbs. note write regularized least-squares cost function ξkwk proposition matrix onceby recovered solve estimatebs. contrast initial inconsistent always consistent since always lies subspace spanned columns note since consistent √ξik submatrixbs simply given last components ofby divided result need solve second obtain estimatebst iteration dividing last components introducing summarize bhby algorithm direct inspection shows that submatrix corresponding mmsed. particular continuity ofbs respect obtain estimatebs setting algorithm suitable convergence correspond i-th column therefore well approximated matrix ck×k consisting output produced parallel corresponding inputs also matrix approximated proposition consider arbitrary matrix equations unknowns known coefﬁcients. estimate iteration starting zero initialization then cn×m linear operator depends internal signal estimatebst produced speciﬁc iteration random linear function precisely havebst matrix depends noisy estimate produced given interpret simulations assume correlated channel model every user true channel vector user given φ/zk covariance matrix entries given a|i−j| correlation parameter assume entries thus vary independently", "year": "2017"}