{"title": "A semi-supervised fuzzy GrowCut algorithm to segment and classify  regions of interest of mammographic images", "tag": "eess", "abstract": " According to the World Health Organization, breast cancer is the most common form of cancer in women. It is the second leading cause of death among women round the world, becoming the most fatal form of cancer. Mammographic image segmentation is a fundamental task to support image analysis and diagnosis, taking into account shape analysis of mammary lesions and their borders. However, mammogram segmentation is a very hard process, once it is highly dependent on the types of mammary tissues. In this work we present a new semi-supervised segmentation algorithm based on the modification of the GrowCut algorithm to perform automatic mammographic image segmentation once a region of interest is selected by a specialist. In our proposal, we used fuzzy Gaussian membership functions to modify the evolution rule of the original GrowCut algorithm, in order to estimate the uncertainty of a pixel being object or background. The main impact of the proposed method is the significant reduction of expert effort in the initialization of seed points of GrowCut to perform accurate segmentation, once it removes the need of selection of background seeds. We also constructed an automatic point selection process based on the simulated annealing optimization method, avoiding the need of human intervention. The proposed approach was qualitatively compared with other state-of-the-art segmentation techniques, considering the shape of segmented regions. In order to validate our proposal, we built an image classifier using a classical multilayer perceptron. We used Zernike moments to extract segmented image features. This analysis employed 685 mammograms from IRMA breast cancer database, using fat and fibroid tissues. Results show that the proposed technique could achieve a classification rate of 91.28\\% for fat tissues, evidencing the feasibility of our approach. ", "text": "condition checked. condition line intensity vectors pixels gray-scale space colors respectively values strength cells iteration function lines µbkg fuzzy membership degree associated uncertainty i-th cell belongs image background whilst µobj fuzzy membership degree associated uncertainty i-th belongs initially selected seeds; standard deviation initial points whilst weights tuning gaussian function empirically determined according problem interest. regions interest mammograms classiﬁed radiologists resized pixels. database composed mammograms images four repositories images mini-mias database zernike moments deﬁned projections intensity function image represented orthogonal basis functions zernike polynomials. calculation zernike moments digital tan−. variable natural number denominated moment order positive negative integer named repetition satisﬁes restriction pair variable zernike polynomials family deﬁned equation equation", "year": "2017"}