{"title": "Spatial Field Reconstruction and Sensor Selection in Heterogeneous  Sensor Networks with Stochastic Energy Harvesting", "tag": "eess", "abstract": " We address the two fundamental problems of spatial field reconstruction and sensor selection in het- erogeneous sensor networks. We consider the case where two types of sensors are deployed: the first consists of expensive, high quality sensors; and the second, of cheap low quality sensors, which are activated only if the intensity of the spatial field exceeds a pre-defined activation threshold (eg. wind sensors). In addition, these sensors are powered by means of energy harvesting and their time varying energy status impacts on the accuracy of the measurement that may be obtained. We account for this phenomenon by encoding the energy harvesting process into the second moment properties of the additive noise, resulting in a spatial heteroscedastic process. We then address the following two important problems: (i) how to efficiently perform spatial field reconstruction based on measurements obtained simultaneously from both networks; and (ii) how to perform query based sensor set selection with predictive MSE performance guarantee. We first show that the resulting predictive posterior distribution, which is key in fusing such disparate observations, involves solving intractable integrals. To overcome this problem, we solve the first problem by developing a low complexity algorithm based on the spatial best linear unbiased estimator (S-BLUE). Next, building on the S-BLUE, we address the second problem, and develop an efficient algorithm for query based sensor set selection with performance guarantee. Our algorithm is based on the Cross Entropy method which solves the combinatorial optimization problem in an efficient manner. We present a comprehensive study of the performance gain that can be obtained by augmenting the high-quality sensors with low-quality sensors using both synthetic and real insurance storm surge database known as the Extreme Wind Storms Catalogue. ", "text": "deﬁnition bounded domain d-dimensional real valuedvector space.denote stochasticprocess parametrizedby then therandomfunction isagaussianprocessifallitsﬁnitedimensionaldistributionsaregaussian mean covariance functions assumed known. total number sensors deployed region {··· physical location n-th sensor assumed known number sensors deployed network network respectively -dimensional space mean response physical process smooth continuous spatial function order ensure positivity modelled loggaussian process similar given important role determining ˆf∗. speciﬁes cross correlation test point k-th sensor observation network higher value larger effect high quality sensor observation ˆf∗. similarly speciﬁes cross correlation directly. deﬁne collection indicator functions {{s≥γ}} various levels next family probability densities parametrized realvalued parameter vector ﬁxed associate problem estimating", "year": "2018"}