{"title": "Real-Time-Data Analytics in Raw Materials Handling", "tag": "eess", "abstract": " This paper proposes a system for the ingestion and analysis of real-time sensor and actor data of bulk materials handling plants and machinery. It references issues that concern mining sensor data in cyber physical systems (CPS). The advance of cyber physical systems has created a significant change in the architecture of sensor and actor data. It affects the complexity of the observed systems in general, the number of signals being processed, the spatial distribution of the signal sources on a machine or plant and the global availability of the data. There are different definitions for what constitutes cyber physical systems: the most succinct and pertinent to the work shown in this paper is the definition given by the IEEE: A CPS is a system with a coupling of the cyber aspects of computing and communications with the physical aspects of dynamics and engineering that must abide by the laws of physics. This includes sensor networks, real-time and hybrid systems. Results computed from sensor and actor data must obey the equations used for modelling the physics of the observed system - this fundamentally poses an inverse problem. Such problems are not covered sufficiently by literature addressing mining of sensor data. Even available standard books on mining sensor data do not discuss the special nature of sensor data. Typically, present approaches of mining data rely on correlation as being a sole, reliable measure for significance. It is not taken into account that the inverse solutions to the model-describing equations are required to establish a semantic link between a sensor observation and its precedent cause. Without this link - without causality - there can be no physics based knowledge discovery. ", "text": "fig. illustration shows main processes data ingestion. section corresponds machine plant data collected bottom part represents data center located different location. data provided several formats ingested. fig. three single days data assembled contiguous data stream. illustrated contiguous section corresponds time portion ship loader needs load vessel enables evaluations based time ranges significant particular fields interest. proach ship loader mobile sizing bucket-wheel excavator bucket-wheel reclaimer. sensor channels systems monitored sampling interval http//www.flickriver.com/photos/impalatermnals_images/ retrieved courtesy sandvik.) sampling time vertical line corresponds event; events found total using advanced symbolic time series analysis every event corresponds inappropriate operation machine data zoomed automatically every single event perform local analysis i.e. seconds minutes right occurrence event", "year": "2018"}