{"title": "Mobile Energy Internet", "tag": "eess", "abstract": " Similar to the evolution from the wired Internet to mobile Internet (MI), the growing demand for power delivery anywhere and anytime appeals for power grid transformation from wired to mobile domain. We propose here the next generation of power delivery network -- mobile energy internet (MEI) for wireless energy transfer within a mobile range from several meters to tens of meters. MEI will be a significant complement for the Internet of things (IoT), because battery charging is one of the biggest headaches for IoT devices. At first, we present the application scenarios of MEI to show its prospect in practical application. Since MEI relies on wireless power transfer (WPT), we then particularly introduce a promising long-range high-power WPT method, namely resonant beam charging (RBC), which can transmit wireless power to multiple devices concurrently and safely. Following the comparison of various WPT technologies, we specify the MEI architecture with access layer and backbone layer, and then propose the software-defined MEI. Finally, we demonstrate the features and challenges of MEI. MEI will be the expansion from the power grid to mobile domain, which has the potential to play the similar role of MI in information technology. ", "text": "similar evolution wired internet mobile internet growing demand power delivery anywhere anytime appeals power grid transformation wired mobile domain. propose next generation power delivery network mobile energy internet wireless energy transfer within mobile range several meters tens meters. signiﬁcant complement internet things battery charging biggest headaches devices. ﬁrst present application scenarios show prospect practical application. since relies wireless power transfer particularly introduce promising long-range high-power method namely resonant beam charging transmit wireless power multiple devices concurrently safely. following comparison various technologies specify architecture access layer backbone layer propose software-deﬁned mei. finally demonstrate features challenges mei. expansion power grid mobile domain potential play similar role information technology.", "year": "2018"}