{"title": "Full-Duplex Communications: Performance in Ultra-Dense Small-Cell  Wireless Networks", "tag": "eess", "abstract": " Theoretically, full-duplex (FD) communications can double the spectral-efficiency (SE) of a wireless link if the problem of self-interference (SI) is completely eliminated. Recent developments towards SI cancellation techniques have allowed to realize the FD communications on low-power transceivers, such as small-cell (SC) base stations. Consequently, the FD technology is being considered as a key enabler of 5G and beyond networks. In the context of 5G, FD communications have been initially investigated in a single SC and then into multiple SC environments. Due to FD operations, a single SC faces residual SI and intra-cell co-channel interference (CCI), whereas multiple SCs face additional inter-cell CCI, which grows with the number of neighboring cells. The surge of interference in the multi-cell environment poses the question of the feasibility of FD communications. In this article, we first review the FD communications in single and multiple SC environments and then provide the state-of-the-art for the CCI mitigation techniques, as well as FD feasibility studies in a multi-cell environment. Further, through numerical simulations, the SE performance gain of the FD communications in ultra-dense massive multiple input multiple-output enabled millimeter wave SCs is presented. Finally, potential open research challenges of multi-cell FD communications are highlighted. ", "text": "abstract— theoretically full-duplex communications double spectral-efficiency wireless link problem self-interference completely eliminated. recent developments towards cancellation techniques allowed realize communications low-power transceivers small-cell base stations. consequently considered enabler beyond networks. context communications initially investigated single multiple environments. operations single faces residual intra-cell co-channel interference whereas multiple face additional inter-cell grows number neighboring cells. surge interference multi-cell environment poses question feasibility communications. article first review communications single multiple environments provide stateof-the-art mitigation techniques well feasibility studies multi-cell environment. further numerical simulations performance gain communications ultra-dense massive multipleinput multiple-output enabled millimeter wave presented. finally potential open research challenges multi-cell communications highlighted. figure co-channel interference links scs. users well ad-hoc users. co-channel interference links arise in-band wireless backhaul communications sbs.", "year": "2018"}