{"title": "Spectral Analysis of GFDM Modulated Signal under Nonlinear Behavior of  Power Amplifier", "tag": "eess", "abstract": " General frequency division multiplexing (GFDM) is a flexible non-orthogonal waveform candidate for 5G which can offer some advantages such as low out-of-band (OOB) emission and high spectral efficiency. In this paper, the effects of nonlinear behavior of practical PAs on GFDM signal are studied. In the first step, a closed form expression for power spectral density (PSD) of GFDM signal is extracted. Then, the PSD at the output of PA as a function of input power and the coefficients of nonlinear polynomial PA model is derived. In addition, the adjacent channel power (ACP) and ACP ratio, as two important performance metrics, are evaluated. The simulation results confirm the accuracy of derived analytical expressions. Moreover, to validate the performance of GFDM modulation after nonlinear PA, it is compared with OFDM modulation. ", "text": "corresponding output complex coefﬁcients baseband input signal order nonlinearity. in-band adjacent-band intermodulation distortions caused terms nonlinearity determined output signal obtained summation terms bandwidth gfdm signal also multiples bandwidth main channel causes spectral regrowth. therefore bandwidth output signal simulation analytic result frequency considered range respectively. expected increasing number subsymbols causes reduction leakage. however performance metrics system analytical formula also compression saturation points .dbm psat .dbm. ﬁgure shows theoretical simulation results clearly matched total output power expression veriﬁed. power scaling factors psat. note ﬁrst selected linear region expected increasing input power scaling factor approaching saturation point adjacent channel power interval increases. shown fig. simulation analytical results acpr metrics illustrated. mentioned considered frequency interval adjacent channel. fig. theoretical expression acpr compared monte carlo", "year": "2018"}