{"title": "New Ideas for Brain Modelling", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " This paper describes some biologically-inspired processes that could be used to build the sort of networks that we associate with the human brain. New to this paper, a 'refined' neuron will be proposed. This is a group of neurons that by joining together can produce a more analogue system, but with the same level of control and reliability that a binary neuron would have. With this new structure, it will be possible to think of an essentially binary system in terms of a more variable set of values. The paper also shows how recent research associated with the new model, can be combined with established theories, to produce a more complete picture. The propositions are largely in line with conventional thinking, but possibly with one or two more radical suggestions. An earlier cognitive model can be filled in with more specific details, based on the new research results, where the components appear to fit together almost seamlessly. The intention of the research has been to describe plausible 'mechanical' processes that can produce the appropriate brain structures and mechanisms, but that could be used without the magical 'intelligence' part that is still not fully understood. There are also some important updates from an earlier version of this paper. ", "text": "abstract paper describes biologically-inspired processes could used build sort networks associate human brain. paper ‘refined’ neuron proposed. group neurons joining together produce analogue system level control reliability binary neuron would have. structure possible think essentially binary system terms variable values. paper also shows recent research associated model combined established theories produce complete picture. propositions largely line conventional thinking possibly radical suggestions. earlier cognitive model filled specific details based research results components appear together almost seamlessly. intention research describe plausible ‘mechanical’ processes produce appropriate brain structures mechanisms could used without magical ‘intelligence’ part still fully understood. also important updates earlier version paper. threshold main neuron. input signal single direct synapse. total input signal direct synapses. aesn average excess input value input synapse. distance firing neuron relation feedback signal. difference exceed threshold called 'vigilance parameter' sensed object considered member expected class.the learning process stages. input pattern matched existing categories process self-organising category fire. input matches paper much extended version first version ‘the refined neuron’ published scribd also arxiv.this version made important changes updates also added substantial amount information regarding supporting arguments complete system.", "year": "2014"}