{"title": "Topological Principles of Control in Dynamical Network Systems", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " Networked systems display complex patterns of interactions between a large number of components. In physical networks, these interactions often occur along structural connections that link components in a hard-wired connection topology, supporting a variety of system-wide dynamical behaviors such as synchronization. While descriptions of these behaviors are important, they are only a first step towards understanding the relationship between network topology and system behavior, and harnessing that relationship to optimally control the system's function. Here, we use linear network control theory to analytically relate the topology of a subset of structural connections (those linking driver nodes to non-driver nodes) to the minimum energy required to control networked systems. As opposed to the numerical computations of control energy, our accurate closed-form expressions yield general structural features in networks that require significantly more or less energy to control, providing topological principles for the design and modification of network behavior. To illustrate the utility of the mathematics, we apply this approach to high-resolution connectomes recently reconstructed from drosophila, mouse, and human brains. We use these principles to show that connectomes of increasingly complex species are wired to reduce control energy. We then use the analytical expressions we derive to perform targeted manipulation of the brain's control profile by removing single edges in the network, a manipulation that is accessible to current clinical techniques in patients with neurological disorders. Cross-species comparisons suggest an advantage of the human brain in supporting diverse network dynamics with small energetic costs, while remaining unexpectedly robust to perturbations. Our results ground the expectation of a system's dynamical behavior in its network architecture. ", "text": "consider network represented directed graph sets network vertices edges respectively. weight associated edge weighted adjacency matrix associate real value node collect nodes’ drivers non-drivers. example show adjacency matrix drosophila connectome segmented driver driver driver non-driver non-driver driver non-driver non-driver sections non-simpliﬁed network non-driver fraction permutation calculated every non-driver. then averaged non-driver across permutations giving averaged magnitude brain region drosophila little relationship averaged drosophila moderate negative relationship mouse strong negative relationship human graphically demonstrate negative relation might arise non-driver among strongly interconnected nodes stronger driver non-driver connections greater number similarly connected conﬁgurations sets network vertices edges respectively. weight associated edge weighted adjacency matrix associate real value node collect nodes’ states vector deﬁne squared volume parallelotope formed rows also note minor gram matrix removing represented determinants becomes squared ratio parallelotope volumes", "year": "2017"}