{"title": "Molecular recognition of the environment and mechanisms of the origin of  species in quantum-like modeling of evolution", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " A review of the mechanisms of speciation is performed. The mechanisms of the evolution of species, taking into account the feedback of the state of the environment and mechanisms of the emergence of complexity, are considered. It is shown that these mechanisms, at the molecular level, cannot work steadily in terms of classical mechanics. Quantum mechanisms of changes in the genome, based on the long-range interaction potential between biologically important molecules, are proposed as one of possible explanation. Different variants of interactions of the organism and environment based on molecular recognition and leading to new species origins are considered. Experiments to verify the model are proposed. This bio-physical study is completed by the general operational model of based on quantum information theory. The latter is applied to model epigenetic evolution. ", "text": "e.g. asano biologist friendly presentation theory open quantum systems general theory adaptive quantum systems. advanced presentation also biological flavor found finally rigorous mathematical formalism presented book second author paper approached problem starting probabilistic analysis quantum foundations. main output analysis quantum probabilistic behavior rigid coupling mystical features micro-systems. supported conclusion khrennikov started look applications quantum probability theory outside physics especially model cognitive psychological behavior. established fruitful cooperation group experimenters working cognitive science conte proposed test quantum-like features statistical data collected experiments recognition ambiguous figures explored experimental design proposed honestly speaking publications attract much attention. revolutionary step done professor cognitive psychology busemeyer approached theory another side. working long time disjunction effect interested find novel mathematical machinery handle effect proper way. started appeal quantum probability. result advertising quantum probability cognitive psychology community quantum models started diffuse community.", "year": "2017"}