{"title": "Universal in vivo Textural Model for Human Skin based on Optical  Coherence Tomograms", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " Currently, diagnosis of skin diseases is based primarily on visual pattern recognition skills and expertise of the physician observing the lesion. Even though dermatologists are trained to recognize patterns of morphology, it is still a subjective visual assessment. Tools for automated pattern recognition can provide objective information to support clinical decision-making. Noninvasive skin imaging techniques provide complementary information to the clinician. In recent years, optical coherence tomography has become a powerful skin imaging technique. According to specific functional needs, skin architecture varies across different parts of the body, as do the textural characteristics in OCT images. There is, therefore, a critical need to systematically analyze OCT images from different body sites, to identify their significant qualitative and quantitative differences. Sixty-three optical and textural features extracted from OCT images of healthy and diseased skin are analyzed and in conjunction with decision-theoretic approaches used to create computational models of the diseases. We demonstrate that these models provide objective information to the clinician to assist in the diagnosis of abnormalities of cutaneous microstructure, and hence, aid in the determination of treatment. Specifically, we demonstrate the performance of this methodology on differentiating basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) from healthy tissue. ", "text": "figure images structure annotation different sites body including nose preauricular volar forearm neck palm back thumb dorsal forearm sole calf. stratum corneum stratum lucidum eccrine sweat ducts remainder epidermis reticular dermis dermal-epidermal junction showing pronounced dermal papillae papillary dermis dermis epidermis blood vessels thick skin thin skin. figure classification results. correlation features used differentiating healthy versus samples correlation selected features curve different subsets features lsvm classifier cross-validation classification error different classifiers different subsets features used. short emphasis long emphasis gray-level nonuniformity percentage length nonuniformity lgre gray-level emphasis hgre high gray-level emphasis. figure classification results. correlation features used differentiating healthy versus samples correlation selected features curve different subsets features qsvm classifier cross-validation classification error different classifiers different subsets features used. short emphasis long emphasis gray-level nonuniformity", "year": "2017"}