{"title": "Theoretical restrictions on longest implicit timescales in Markov state  models of biomolecular dynamics", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " Markov state models (MSMs) have been widely used to analyze computer simulations of various biomolecular systems. They can capture conformational transitions much slower than an average or maximal length of a single molecular dynamics (MD) trajectory from the set of trajectories used to build the MSM. A rule of thumb claiming that the slowest implicit timescale captured by an MSM should be comparable by the order of magnitude to the aggregate duration of all MD trajectories used to build this MSM has been known in the field. However, this rule have never been formally proved. In this work, we present analytical results for the slowest timescale in several types of MSMs, supporting the above rule. We conclude that the slowest implicit timescale equals the product of the aggregate sampling and four factors that quantify: (1) how much statistics on the conformational transitions corresponding to the longest implicit timescale is available, (2) how good the sampling of the destination Markov state is, (3) the gain in statistics from using a sliding window for counting transitions between Markov states, and (4) a bias in the estimate of the implicit timescale arising from finite sampling of the conformational transitions. We demonstrate that in many practically important cases all these four factors are on the order of unity, and we analyze possible scenarios that could lead to their significant deviation from unity. Overall, we provide for the first time analytical results on the slowest timescales captured by MSMs. These results can guide further practical applications of MSMs to biomolecular dynamics and allow for higher computational efficiency of simulations. ", "text": "state state lagtime respectively. variables similar variables difference exact probabilities corresponding estimates finite statistical sample introduce separate variable exact probability staying state average expected number transitions states exponential integral function euler–mascheroni constant. detailed analysis function right hand side provided discussion section. eigenvalues matrix less corresponding finite implicit timescales transitions subsystem states perturbations first eigenvalues found eigenvalues matrix transitions states expression contains total number transitions state properties subsystem states equilibrium populations states probabilities transitions them left final result unlike previous cases seem possible analytically simplify small nab/n nba/n nac/n nca/n finite nbb/n ncc/n. however practically important case sampled typical situation frare state approximately equal fraction frames metastable state cases longest timescale limited time system spent rare state rather eqs. similar equations msms states. practically important range bias positive negative reaching analysis systematic bias based approximation rare transitions subgraphs various types msms", "year": "2017"}