{"title": "Development of aging changes: self-accelerating and inhomogeneous", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " Aging changes including age spots and atherosclerotic plaques develop in an inhomogeneous and accelerated manner. For understanding this phenomenon, some aging changes are analyzed by Misrepair mechanism, a mechanism proposed in Misrepair-accumulation theory. I. Misrepair is a strategy of repair for survival of an organism in situations of severe injuries; however a Misrepair alters the structure of a tissue, a cell or a molecule, which are the sub-structures of an organism. II. Misrepair of a sub-structure also alters the spatial relationship of this sub-structure with its neighbor sub-structures. Thus a Misrepair leads to increased damage-sensitivity and reduced repair-efficiency of these sub-structures. As a result, Misrepairs have a tendency to occur to the sub-structure and its neighbor sub-structures where an old Misrepair has taken place. In return, new Misrepairs will increase again the damage-sensitivity of these sub-structures and the surrounding sub-structures. By such a vicious circle, the frequency of Misrepairs to these sub-structures is increased and the range of affected sub-structures is enlarged after each time of Misrepair. Thus, accumulation of Misrepairs is focalized and self-accelerating. III. Focalized accumulation of Misrepairs leads to formation and growing of a \"spot\" or \"plaque\" in a tissue. Growing of a spot is self-accelerating, and old spots grow faster than new ones. New spots tend to develop close to old ones, resulting in an inhomogeneous distribution of spots. In conclusion, the inhomogeneous development of aging changes is a result of self-accelerated and focalized accumulation of Misrepairs; and the process of aging is self-accelerating. ", "text": "misrepair makes sub-structure neighbor sub-structures increased damage-sensitivity reduced repair-efficiency. thus misrepairs tendency occur sub-structure neighbor substructures misrepair taken place. return misrepairs increase damagedevelopment spot tissue result focalized accumulation misrepairs tissue. beginning earliest generation misrepairs takes place randomly then generation", "year": "2015"}