{"title": "The effect of population abundances on the stability of large random  ecosystems", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " Random matrix theory successfully connects the structure of interactions of large ecological communities to their ability to respond to perturbations. One of the most debated aspects of this approach is the missing role of population abundances. Despite being one of the most studied patterns in ecology, and one of the most empirically accessible quantities, population abundances are always neglected in random matrix approaches and their role in determining stability is still not understood. Here, we tackle this question by explicitly including population abundances in a random matrix framework. We obtain an analytical formula that describes the spectrum of a large community matrix for arbitrary feasible species abundance distributions. The emerging picture is remarkably simple: while population abundances affect the rate to return to equilibrium after a perturbation, the stability of large ecosystems is uniquely determined by the interaction matrix. We confirm this result by showing that the likelihood of having a feasible and unstable solution in the Lotka-Volterra system of equations decreases exponentially with the number of species for stable interaction matrices. ", "text": "assume feasible equilibrium exists deﬁne diagonal matrix diagonal entries feasible ﬁxed point locally asymptotically stable eigenvalues community matrix components negative real part. here model random matrix matrix that without loss generality written matrix ones random matrix diagonal elements ﬁxed zero whose coeﬃcients mean zero variance deﬁne equivalently matrix parameters except section repeat simulations detailed section instead considering random ﬁxed point determined random intrinsic growth rate vector sampled uniformly feasibility domain. hand since relation bijective easily construct vectors inside feasibility domain considering possible feasible solution section speciﬁed distribution distribution translates non-trivial distribution section instead assume distribution derive corresponding distribution instance assume vectors uniformly distributed unit sphere distribution reads sampling vectors according distribution equivalent sampling vectors uniformly feasibility domain. important observe drawn according distribution entries independent uniform distribution lognormal following log-normal distribution log-mean log-standard deviation halfnormal following half-normal distribution support parameter eigenvalue oﬀ-diagonal elements follow bivariate normal distribution elements drawn uniform distribution diagonal elements follow uniform distribution", "year": "2017"}