{"title": "Multilayer Brain Networks", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " The field of neuroscience is facing an unprecedented expanse in the volume and diversity of available data. Traditionally, network models have provided key insights into the structure and function of the brain. With the advent of big data in neuroscience, both more sophisticated models capable of characterizing the increasing complexity of the data and novel methods of quantitative analysis are needed. Recently multilayer networks, a mathematical extension of traditional networks, have gained increasing popularity in neuroscience due to their ability to capture the full information of multi-model, multi-scale, spatiotemporal data sets. Here, we review multilayer networks and their applications in neuroscience, showing how incorporating the multilayer framework into network neuroscience analysis has uncovered previously hidden features of brain networks. We specifically highlight the use of multilayer networks to model disease, structure-function relationships, network evolution, and link multi-scale data. Finally, we close with a discussion of promising new directions of multilayer network neuroscience research and propose a modified definition of multilayer networks designed to unite and clarify the use of the multilayer formalism in describing real-world systems. ", "text": "figure four representations multilayer network. adjacency matrices shown bottom intra-layer inter-layer edges colored green blue respectively white representing edge present multilayer network visualized emphasis partition network layers. intra-layer edges solid inter-layer edges dashed. adjacency matrix labeled emphasis partition network layers. multilayer network shown network whose nodes vector labeled. vector labeled adjacency matrix. figure visualization temporal network. layer network corresponds time window. intra-layer edges vertically inter-layer edges horizontally. temporal network time layers. network layer network corresponding time window highlighted. figure module allegiance matrix diﬀerent scanning sessions. subjects scanned performing motor task diﬀerent sessions scanning sessions subjects practiced motor tasks home. full module allegiance matrix calculated across subjects. zoomed view module allegiance matrix corresponding visual motor systems. reprinted modiﬁed deﬁnition deﬁne multilayer network tuple ×···× labeling function. assume distinguished nodes. form layer network choose many indices choose vector length given lj×···×ljc. vertices layer figure full dimensional multilayer network. visual clarity edges subjects shown brain region. layer associated subject layer multilayer network. layer associated region multilayer network.", "year": "2017"}