{"title": "Potential of longevity: hidden in structural complexity", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " In order to understand the phenomenon of longevity in biological world, the relationship between the potential of longevity and the structural complexity of an organism is analyzed. I. The potential of longevity is the maximum lifespan of an organism if it lives in an ideal environment. The longevity of an organism includes two parts: the time for development (development time) and the time for structure-maintenance (maintenance time). II. The development time of an organism depends on its structural complexity. The maintenance time is related to two factors: the degree of damage-exposure and the potential of functionality for structure-maintenance. The potential of functionality is built in structural complexity. Since both of development time and maintenance time are determined by structural complexity, the potential of longevity of an organism is hidden in structural complexity. III. The individuals of different species have different potentials of longevity because they have different structural complexities. An animal has limited longevity because it has limited structural complexity. Limited structural complexity and limited longevity are essential for the survival of a species. IV. Despite having the same potential of longevity, the individuals of a species can have different lifespans. The lifespan of an individual is more related to the degree of damage-exposure, which is determined by the living environment and the living habit of the individual. In conclusion, the potential of longevity of an organism is hidden in structural complexity, but the real lifespan of an organism is more related to the living environment. ", "text": "supply point vein substitute vein similarly parts leaf points sources water supply namely vein vein network-like distribution branches veins reduces risk death leaf failure branch vein. marden rogina montooth helfand conditional tradeoffs aging organismal performance indy long-lived mutant flies. proc. natl. acad. sci. u.s.a. ./pnas.", "year": "2015"}