{"title": "Development of age spots as a result of accumulation of aged cells in  aged skin", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " Age spots are the brown spots that develop in the skin but change in color and shape with time. To understand the mechanism of development of age spots, characteristics of age spots are analyzed by Misrepair mechanism, a mechanism introduced in Misrepair-accumulation aging theory. An age spot is pathologically a group of aggregated basal cells, which contain lipofuscin bodies. Accumulation of lipofuscin bodies is a sign of aging of a cell. Characteristics of age spots include: inhomogeneity in distribution, growing flatly before becoming protruding, irregularity on shape, inhomogeneity on the color and on the protruding degree of a spot, and softness of a protruding spot. After analyzing these characteristics, we make a hypothesis on the process of development of an age spot. A. Aging of a tissue is the basis for development of age spots. B. A flat spot results from accumulation of lipofuscin containing cells. When an aged cell remains, this cell can accelerate the aging of its neighbor cells by increasing damage sensitivity and reducing repair efficiency of the local tissue. By a viscous circle, more and more neighbor cells become aged and they form a flat spot, which has an irregular shape. C. A protruding spot develops when some of the cells in a flat spot die and release lipofuscin bodies. For the survival of an organism, the un degradable lipofuscin bodies have to be isolated by a capsule made by fibrotic membrane, for maintaining the structural integrity of local epidermis. Successive deaths of lipofuscin containing cells make the capsule include more and more dead substances by layers of fibrotic membrane. In this way, the spot \"grows\" in three-dimension, resulting in protruding of the spot. In conclusion, development of an age spot is a result of accumulation of aged cells in aged skin. ", "text": "cells cluster together spots changing time size shape color. phenomena traditional aging theories including damage -accumulation theory gene-controlling theory unfortunately unable give interpretation. present paper analyze spots misrepair mechanism make hypothesis process development spot. misrepair mechanism mechanism proposed misrepair-accumulation aging theory discussion paper tackles following issues theories give interpretation. example gene-controlling theory suggests certain genes control whole process aging independently however genes existed locations spots independent locations damage-exposure faults limitation repair/maintenance however aging direct result damage accumulation random damage result homogenous distribution spots within affected area explaining aging changes proposed generalized concept misrepair misrepair-accumulation theory concept misrepair defined incorrect reconstruction injured living structure applicable living structures efficiency. accumulation misrepairs therefore focalized self-accelerating. development aging changes thus self-accelerating inhomogeneous aging take place level living structures; however aging organism takes place kirkwood understanding science aging. cell fabrizio hoon shamalnasab galbani giaever nislow longo genome-wide screen saccharomyces cerevisiae identifies vacuolar protein sorting autophagy biosynthetic trna methylation genes involved life span regulation. plos genetics", "year": "2015"}