{"title": "Mechanical characterization of disordered and anisotropic cellular  monolayers", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " We consider a cellular monolayer, described using a vertex-based model, for which cells form a spatially disordered array of convex polygons that tile the plane. Equilibrium cell configurations are assumed to minimize a global energy defined in terms of cell areas and perimeters; energy is dissipated via dynamic area and length changes, as well as cell neighbour exchanges. The model captures our observations of an epithelium from a Xenopus embryo showing that uniaxial stretching induces spatial ordering, with cells under net tension (compression) tending to align with (against) the direction of stretch, but with the stress remaining heterogeneous at the single-cell level. We use the vertex model to derive the linearized relation between tissue-level stress, strain and strain-rate about a deformed base state, which can be used to characterize the tissue's anisotropic mechanical properties; expressions for viscoelastic tissue moduli are given as direct sums over cells. When the base state is isotropic, the model predicts that tissue properties can be tuned to a regime with high elastic shear resistance but low resistance to area changes, or vice versa. ", "text": "polygonal cells labelled cells assumed identical mechanical properties described terms preferred area bulk stiﬀness cortical stiﬀness bulk viscosity cortical viscosity scaling distances include additional dissipative stresses associated neighbour exchanges extrusion small cells. alternative derivation directly provided appendix show small-amplitude python script. eﬀective tissue pressure unstretched monolayer presumed zero allowing preferred area parameter ﬁtted parameters epithelium stretched allowing stretched) conﬁguration pre-stress small-amplitude homogeneous strain changes global stress ∆σm. evaluate perturbation stresses arising unidirectional strains diag diag thus follows similarly liˆti liˆti product rule +li. lie·ˆti using gives lie· liˆti thus ∆ˆti ˆti. note ensuring unit vectors rotated stretched.", "year": "2017"}