{"title": "On the organization of grid and place cells: Neural de-noising via  subspace learning", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " Place cells in the hippocampus are active when an animal visits a certain location (referred to as a place field) within an environment. Grid cells in the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) respond at multiple locations, with firing fields that form a periodic and hexagonal tiling of the environment. The joint activity of grid and place cell populations, as a function of location, forms a neural code for space. An ensemble of codes is generated by varying grid and place cell population parameters. For each code in this ensemble, codewords are generated by stimulating a network with a discrete set of locations. In this manuscript, we develop an understanding of the relationships between coding theoretic properties of these combined populations and code construction parameters. These relationships are revisited by measuring the performances of biologically realizable algorithms implemented by networks of place and grid cell populations, as well as constraint neurons, which perform de-noising operations. Objectives of this work include the investigation of coding theoretic limitations of the mammalian neural code for location and how communication between grid and place cell networks may improve the accuracy of each population's representation. Simulations demonstrate that de-noising mechanisms analyzed here can significantly improve fidelity of this neural representation of space. Further, patterns observed in connectivity of each population of simulated cells suggest that inter-hippocampal-medial-entorhinal-cortical connectivity decreases downward along the dorsoventral axis. ", "text": "maximum ﬁring rate fmax identical neurons. update sparsity threshold penalty coeﬃcient scalar projection onto learning rate iteration sparsity noise pattern. since weight vector nearly perpendicular every pattern matrix weights reveals inconsistencies de-noising algorithm seeks correct feedback stage de-noising feedback weights constraint introduced increasing hybrid code encodes neurons locations environment full rank. however stark drop maximum rank achieved. shown encode orders magnitude locations solid curve network performs de-noising). this consider de-noising network change initial number errors network small initial number errors conﬁgurations threshold increase number symbol errors figure shows observation independent", "year": "2017"}