{"title": "A Novel Hybrid Biometric Electronic Voting System: Integrating Finger  Print and Face Recognition", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " A novel hybrid design based electronic voting system is proposed, implemented and analyzed. The proposed system uses two voter verification techniques to give better results in comparison to single identification based systems. Finger print and facial recognition based methods are used for voter identification. Cross verification of a voter during an election process provides better accuracy than single parameter identification method. The facial recognition system uses Viola-Jones algorithm along with rectangular Haar feature selection method for detection and extraction of features to develop a biometric template and for feature extraction during the voting process. Cascaded machine learning based classifiers are used for comparing the features for identity verification using GPCA (Generalized Principle Component Analysis) and K-NN (K-Nearest Neighbor). It is accomplished through comparing the Eigen-vectors of the extracted features with the biometric template pre-stored in the election regulatory body database. The results of the proposed system show that the proposed cascaded design based system performs better than the systems using other classifiers or separate schemes i.e. facial or finger print based schemes. The proposed system will be highly useful for real time applications due to the reason that it has 91% accuracy under nominal light in terms of facial recognition. with bags of paper votes. The central station compiles and publishes the names of winners and losers through television and radio stations. This method is useful only if the whole process is completed in a transparent way. However, there are some drawbacks to this system. These include higher expenses, longer time to complete the voting process, fraudulent practices by the authorities administering elections as well as malpractices by the voters [1]. These challenges result in manipulated election results. ", "text": "novel hybrid design based electronic voting system proposed implemented analyzed. proposed system uses voter verification techniques give better results comparison single identification based systems. finger print facial recognition based methods used voter identification. cross verification voter election process provides better accuracy single parameter identification method. facial recognition system uses viola-jones algorithm along rectangular haar feature selection method detection extraction features develop biometric template feature extraction voting process. cascaded machine learning based classifiers used comparing features identity verification using gpca k-nn accomplished comparing eigen-vectors extracted features biometric template pre-stored election regulatory body database. results proposed system show proposed cascaded design based system performs better systems using classifiers separate schemes i.e. facial finger print based schemes. proposed system highly useful real time applications reason accuracy nominal light terms facial recognition. department electronic engineering university engineering technology karachi department computer systems engineering baluchistan university engineering technology khuzdar.", "year": "2018"}