{"title": "Volume entropy and information flow in a brain graph", "tag": "q-bio", "abstract": " Entropy is a classical measure to quantify the amount of information or complexity of a system. Various entropy-based measures such as functional and spectral entropies have been proposed in brain network analysis. However, they are less widely used than traditional graph theoretic measures such as global and local efficiencies because either they are not well-defined on a graph or difficult to interpret its biological meaning. In this paper, we propose a new entropy-based graph invariant, called volume entropy. It measures the exponential growth rate of the number of paths in a graph, which is a relevant measure if information flows through the graph forever. We model the information propagation on a graph by the generalized Markov system associated to the weighted edge-transition matrix. We estimate the volume entropy using the stationary equation of the generalized Markov system. A prominent advantage of using the stationary equation is that it assigns certain distribution of weights on the edges of the brain graph, which we call the stationary distribution. The stationary distribution shows the information capacity of edges and the direction of information flow on a brain graph. The simulation results show that the volume entropy distinguishes the underlying graph topology and geometry better than the existing graph measures. In brain imaging data application, the volume entropy of brain graphs was significantly related to healthy normal aging from 20s to 60s. In addition, the stationary distribution of information propagation gives a new insight into the information flow of functional brain graph. ", "text": "corrpxi pearson correlation measurement vectors width gaussian kernel. corrpxi corrpxi conditionally negative semi-deﬁnite gaussian kernel based correlation positive deﬁnite satisﬁes mercer’s theorem thus transforms several times. length deﬁned lpsq lpeq. example allowed volume lpeq lpfq. edge assumed orientation initial node ipeq terminal node tpeq given oriented edge ipeq tpeq denote oriented edge ipeq tpeq tpeq ipeq. note exist starting node structure tree denote assumed terminal node number possible paths increases exponentially limit ball called universal covering tree moreover entries sign according perron-frobenius theorem. thus call stationary distribution generalized markov system associated edge-transition matrix lphq. volume graph. denote edges volpeq unnormalized edge distance ˜lpfq normalized distance lpfq obtained lpfq volpeq ˜lpfq. stationary equation rewritten figure distance matrix graph fig. edge-transition matrix lphvolq edges consecutive fqth entry e´hvollpfq. eigenvector rzes edge capacity matrix rπij edge connects", "year": "2018"}