{"title": "Topic supervised non-negative matrix factorization", "tag": ["cs.CL", "cs.IR", "cs.LG", "stat.ML"], "abstract": "Topic models have been extensively used to organize and interpret the contents of large, unstructured corpora of text documents. Although topic models often perform well on traditional training vs. test set evaluations, it is often the case that the results of a topic model do not align with human interpretation. This interpretability fallacy is largely due to the unsupervised nature of topic models, which prohibits any user guidance on the results of a model. In this paper, we introduce a semi-supervised method called topic supervised non-negative matrix factorization (TS-NMF) that enables the user to provide labeled example documents to promote the discovery of more meaningful semantic structure of a corpus. In this way, the results of TS-NMF better match the intuition and desired labeling of the user. The core of TS-NMF relies on solving a non-convex optimization problem for which we derive an iterative algorithm that is shown to be monotonic and convergent to a local optimum. We demonstrate the practical utility of TS-NMF on the Reuters and PubMed corpora, and find that TS-NMF is especially useful for conceptual or broad topics, where topic key terms are not well understood. Although identifying an optimal latent structure for the data is not a primary objective of the proposed approach, we find that TS-NMF achieves higher weighted Jaccard similarity scores than the contemporary methods, (unsupervised) NMF and latent Dirichlet allocation, at supervision rates as low as 10% to 20%.", "text": "topic models extensively used organize interpret contents large unstructured corpora text documents. although topic models often perform well traditional training test evaluations often case results topic model align human interpretation. interpretability fallacy largely unsupervised nature topic models prohibits user guidance results model. paper introduce semi-supervised method called topic supervised non-negative matrix factorization enables user provide labeled example documents promote discovery meaningful semantic structure corpus. results ts-nmf better match intuition desired labeling user. core ts-nmf relies solving non-convex optimization problem derive iterative algorithm shown monotonic convergent local optimum. demonstrate practical utility ts-nmf reuters pubmed corpora ts-nmf especially useful conceptual broad topics topic terms well understood. although ﬁnding optimal latent structure data primary objective proposed approach ts-nmf achieves higher weighted jaccard similarity scores contemporary methods latent dirichlet allocation supervision rates document bank japan bought small amount dollars shortly opening around dealers said. central bank intervened medium sized trading house sold dollars putting pressure u.s. currency said. labels dollar; money-foreign exchange; ts-nmf dollar dealer document outcome today’s european community white sugar tender extremely diﬃcult predict last week’s substantial award tonnes highest ever rebate european currency units kilos traders said. labels sugar ts-nmf sugar tonne white document china’s industrial output rose ﬁrst quarter period people’s daily said. overseas edition said growth rate compares target seven whole rather high base ﬁrst quarter side. industrial output grew ﬁrst quarter said china’s industrial production year normal product quality eﬃciency need improvement. gave details. ts-nmf china agency news january industrial pro; duction quarter ﬁrst fourth", "year": 2017}