{"title": "The Wilson Machine for Image Modeling", "tag": ["stat.ML", "cond-mat.stat-mech", "cs.CV", "cs.LG"], "abstract": "Learning the distribution of natural images is one of the hardest and most important problems in machine learning. The problem remains open, because the enormous complexity of the structures in natural images spans all length scales. We break down the complexity of the problem and show that the hierarchy of structures in natural images fuels a new class of learning algorithms based on the theory of critical phenomena and stochastic processes. We approach this problem from the perspective of the theory of critical phenomena, which was developed in condensed matter physics to address problems with infinite length-scale fluctuations, and build a framework to integrate the criticality of natural images into a learning algorithm. The problem is broken down by mapping images into a hierarchy of binary images, called bitplanes. In this representation, the top bitplane is critical, having fluctuations in structures over a vast range of scales. The bitplanes below go through a gradual stochastic heating process to disorder. We turn this representation into a directed probabilistic graphical model, transforming the learning problem into the unsupervised learning of the distribution of the critical bitplane and the supervised learning of the conditional distributions for the remaining bitplanes. We learnt the conditional distributions by logistic regression in a convolutional architecture. Conditioned on the critical binary image, this simple architecture can generate large, natural-looking images, with many shades of gray, without the use of hidden units, unprecedented in the studies of natural images. The framework presented here is a major step in bringing criticality and stochastic processes to machine learning and in studying natural image statistics.", "text": "bitplanes close since critical ﬂuctuations happen inﬁnite scales large structures induce marginal interactions bitplanes below. estimated conditional distributions taking patches performing logistic regression bitplane taking bitplanes {bb··· bλ−} input. since natural images translation-invariant assumed weight-sharing making logistic regression convolutional. batch contained samples size taken images size pixels geisler database natural images learnt center-surround receptive ﬁeld shown fig. receptive ﬁelds conditional distributions center-surround form. learnt receptive ﬁeld conditional distribution given. size receptive ﬁeld pixels. receptive ﬁelds bitplanes center-surround form. normalized histogram logistic generated conditioning bitplane fig. obtaining bitplanes logistic activations learnt convolutional ﬁlters. bitplanes combined obtain gray-scale", "year": 2015}