{"title": "Cross-label Suppression: A Discriminative and Fast Dictionary Learning  with Group Regularization", "tag": ["cs.LG", "cs.CV", "stat.ML"], "abstract": "This paper addresses image classification through learning a compact and discriminative dictionary efficiently. Given a structured dictionary with each atom (columns in the dictionary matrix) related to some label, we propose cross-label suppression constraint to enlarge the difference among representations for different classes. Meanwhile, we introduce group regularization to enforce representations to preserve label properties of original samples, meaning the representations for the same class are encouraged to be similar. Upon the cross-label suppression, we don't resort to frequently-used $\\ell_0$-norm or $\\ell_1$-norm for coding, and obtain computational efficiency without losing the discriminative power for categorization. Moreover, two simple classification schemes are also developed to take full advantage of the learnt dictionary. Extensive experiments on six data sets including face recognition, object categorization, scene classification, texture recognition and sport action categorization are conducted, and the results show that the proposed approach can outperform lots of recently presented dictionary algorithms on both recognition accuracy and computational efficiency.", "text": "∗the authors department electronic engineering tsinghua national laboratory information science technology tsinghua university beijing china. normalized laplacian matrix whole graph assumed rn×n denotes trace operator matrices. keeping variation small force components similar neighboring vertices dictionary updated layers. outer layer assuming part-dictionary rm×kc composed atoms indices size part-dictionaries renewed one. inner layer part-dictionary atoms updated one. local coding classiﬁer catenate shared part-dictionary labelparticular part-dictionary together obtaining combined part-dictionaries further force query sample represented", "year": 2017}