{"title": "Neural tuning size is a key factor underlying holistic face processing", "tag": ["cs.AI", "cs.CV", "cs.NE", "q-bio.NC"], "abstract": "Faces are a class of visual stimuli with unique significance, for a variety of reasons. They are ubiquitous throughout the course of a person's life, and face recognition is crucial for daily social interaction. Faces are also unlike any other stimulus class in terms of certain physical stimulus characteristics. Furthermore, faces have been empirically found to elicit certain characteristic behavioral phenomena, which are widely held to be evidence of \"holistic\" processing of faces. However, little is known about the neural mechanisms underlying such holistic face processing. In other words, for the processing of faces by the primate visual system, the input and output characteristics are relatively well known, but the internal neural computations are not. The main aim of this work is to further the fundamental understanding of what causes the visual processing of faces to be different from that of objects. In this computational modeling work, we show that a single factor - \"neural tuning size\" - is able to account for three key phenomena that are characteristic of face processing, namely the Composite Face Effect (CFE), Face Inversion Effect (FIE) and Whole-Part Effect (WPE). Our computational proof-of-principle provides specific neural tuning properties that correspond to the poorly-understood notion of holistic face processing, and connects these neural properties to psychophysical behavior. Overall, our work provides a unified and parsimonious theoretical account for the disparate empirical data on face-specific processing, deepening the fundamental understanding of face processing.", "text": "ubiquitous throughout course person’s life face recognition crucial daily social interaction. faces also unlike stimulus class terms certain physical stimulus characteristics. furthermore faces empirically found elicit certain characteristic behavioral phenomena widely held evidence holistic processing faces. however little known neural mechanisms underlying holistic face processing. words processing faces primate visual system input output characteristics relatively well known internal neural computations not. main work fundamental understanding causes visual processing faces different objects. computational modeling work show single factor neural tuning size able account three phenomena characteristic face processing namely composite face effect face inversion effect whole‐part effect computational proof‐of‐principle provides specific neural tuning properties correspond poorly‐understood notion holistic face processing connects neural properties psychophysical behavior. overall work provides unified parsimonious theoretical account disparate empirical data face‐specific processing deepening fundamental understanding face processing.", "year": 2014}