{"title": "Controlled hierarchical filtering: Model of neocortical sensory  processing", "tag": ["cs.NE", "cs.AI", "cs.LG", "q-bio.NC", "C.1.3; F.1.1.; I.2.0; I.2.6; I.2.10; I.4.3.; I.4.10; I.5.1"], "abstract": "A model of sensory information processing is presented. The model assumes that learning of internal (hidden) generative models, which can predict the future and evaluate the precision of that prediction, is of central importance for information extraction. Furthermore, the model makes a bridge to goal-oriented systems and builds upon the structural similarity between the architecture of a robust controller and that of the hippocampal entorhinal loop. This generative control architecture is mapped to the neocortex and to the hippocampal entorhinal loop. Implicit memory phenomena; priming and prototype learning are emerging features of the model. Mathematical theorems ensure stability and attractive learning properties of the architecture. Connections to reinforcement learning are also established: both the control network, and the network with a hidden model converge to (near) optimal policy under suitable conditions. Falsifying predictions, including the role of the feedback connections between neocortical areas are made.", "text": "abstract. model sensory information processing presented. model assumes learning internal generative models predict future evaluate precision prediction central importance information extraction. furthermore model makes bridge goal-oriented systems builds upon structural similarity architecture robust controller hippocampal entorhinal loop. generative control architecture mapped neocortex hippocampal entorhinal loop. implicit memory phenomena; priming prototype learning emerging features model. mathematical theorems ensure stability attractive learning properties architecture. connections reinforcement learning also established control network network hidden model converge optimal policy suitable conditions. falsifying predictions including role feedback connections neocortical areas made. starting assumptions origins model model construction control model control architecture reconstruction networks extended reconstruction network working extended architecture control reconstruction network controlled robust controller working perfectly tuned hierarchy closing loops hierarchy results straightforward mapping sensory processing areas mapping neocortical regions mapping hippocampal-entorhinal loop discussion relation models algorithmic components model arguments model conjectures acknowledgements appendices appendix robustness stable on-line adaptation", "year": 2003}